                                  DunGen 2.0

   I wrote the first DunGen program several years ago. I did this update
because I wanted a higher resolution screen and some additional features
such as multi-level generation. The original program was done in AMOS which
has a wonderful manual but development was stopped before it included AGA
support. This version is in Blitz which has a horrible manual but
nevertheless provides support for AGA features.
   The documentation is all accessed from within the program. Start it up
and press the Help key.

Disclaimer:

   The author assumes no responsibility for damages or losses incured from
the use of the program.

Distribution:

   DunGen is Copyright © 1997 by Mark Hemsath, all rights reserved. It may
distributed freely as long as all files are included that are in the
original archive, and cost is not above media duplication. Permission is
granted to the Aminet CD collection for inclusion. Permission is also
granted to the developers of Blitz Basic to include this source code with
their product if they are so inclined.

Installation:

   Copy the files to wherever you want them making sure the help and img
directories are in the same directory as the program. To your startup
sequence add Assign DunGen: "program directory". The dungen.font is
entirely optional and is not necessary for the program to work. It contains
some Alt characters you can use in the editor. If you want to use it, copy
it over to your FONTS: directory. For PAL Blitz users, rename cppal to cp
and hppal to hp. These 2 files are in the img directory.

Acknowledgments:

   Chris Caracci, for beta testing and many excellent suggestions about the
program design.

   All the great folks on the Blitz mailing list.

   The following people for some terrific library functions:

   Richard T. Elmore
   Stephen McNamara
   Steve Matty
   Andre Bergmann

Bugs:

   In the X and Y (width and height) number display on the print requester,
you may notice a math error. When adding 1/10 of an inch to 0.9 it will
sometimes skip 1.0 and display 1.1. The same holds true for a value of 1.1
and subtracting 1/10 of an inch. It will display 0.9. This I would guess is
a problem that Blitz Basic has and there's not a lot I can do about it.

Further notes:

   This is my first project programming in Blitz. I'm sure there are better
ways to do some of the coding. You may find some lack of consistency in
technique. The are a couple reasons for this. The first is I was
experimenting to find various ways of doing things. Second, the routines
for doing random floorplan generation are pretty much the same as the AMOS
version I did several years ago and my coding practices have changed
(hopefully for the better!) since then. I used some goto's within those
routines to replace the "Pop Proc" command found in AMOS rather than doing
a re-write. I don't think you'll find any goto's anywhere else in the
program.

Legal notes about the code:

   You may use the code as you see fit with one exception. You can't make
alterations and release another version of DunGen or a clone of it without
receiving written permission from me. Thanks.

Direct questions and comments to:

   urland@infomagic.com

Mark Hemsath
March, 1997
