
FramesTaker  V1.2b
------------------


Introduction
------------

This tool has the purpose of making life easier to BlitzII programmers who wants to spare time grabbing their animation frames out of pictures.

It works as a CLI utility, taking as parameters an IFF picture (where it suppose to find the frames to be grabbed) it writes as output a 'Blitz Basic II' shapes file.
The program loads the picture, makes the assumption that colour 0 is considered as a "separator" between frames (ie : you just have to place the frames of the pic without overlapping them :) and starts searching them in a systematic left-right+top-bottom order (by showing what is doing on a intuition screen).
The frames don't need to be on perfect rows or coloums, neither to be same size or to be of a particoular shape ... they can even have "holes" between them (I mean that a frame doesn't need to be composed by a single shape, but can be more complex).
After the search&grab process the proggy returns the number of frames found and saves the Blitz shapes packet.


Usage
-----

 FramesTaker sourcepic destgfxfile precision

where : sourcepic    = IFF file where frames are drawn
        destgfxfile  = name of shapes fiel to be created
        precision    = maximum distance between two shapes wich are part of the same frame.
                       Every time the program will find a division (formed by pixels of colour 0) between two graphic shapes that is more tick than this value, it will consider the two shapes as two different frames.
                       If your picture contains only "one shaped" frames (like spaceships, characters, or so), just put the value 1 here.

Bugs
----
The biggest 'bug' present is that, to be shown correctly, the pic must follow a very standard format (lowres 320x200 or others), because of the lack of care programming the little self-contained displayer. BUT the program work with ANY picture (well, any IFF picture :), even if it doesn't show it correctly, it grabs the frames correctly.


Availability
------------
FramesTaker is Freeware, but comments/bugs/compliments/claims are always welcome at : vega@tilink.ch


Acknowledgements
---------------

Thanx goes to : Claudio Preiano' , for starting the Vega project
                Serge Veugelers  , for supporting our relation with Raymond and for showing loads of patience :)
                Mark Sibly       , for BB2 ! :)
                Ted Baley        , probably the most productive Acid member (well, ex member :)




  Vittorio Ferrari

 CineTech - Graphic adventures development
 
 