                                      TRACKEM
                                     ---------

                                 © 1995 OSCARsoft
                           Written by Neil "TEX" Miller

                             neil@triode.apana.org.au


                    Written in Blitz Basic V1.9 © ACID Software

OVERVIEW:
----------
A mate of mine allowed me to look for some Type 1 fonts on a cd he had, it turned
out that the cd had heaps of them. However, they were all in individual directories
along with other related files. I was only interested in the .PFB files, I was so
desperate for them I sat there with Diropus and went through each directory and
file copied each file one by one to my harddrive.

I swore never to do such a tedious job ever again!


WHAT IT IS:
------------
In the simplest terms, TRACKEM does exactly what it's name says...It TRACKS down
files for you! It then presents you with a list of the files that matched and
allows you to copy these files to a single destination.

It requires DOS 2.0 or up!


FEATURES:
----------
*)-It can scan EVERY Drive, Network & CD connected in one pass for files.

*)-It can copy to multiple destinations when the original is full.

*)-It's easy to use.

*)-It's damn handy too!


INSTALLATION:
--------------
Pretty simple, just copy reqtools.library to your libs directory.
Then double click on the icon.


STARTUP:
---------
When first started it scans all your devices to generate a drive list, floppy
drives or other such devices like MC0: PC0: DS0: will only be listed if they
contain a valid disk. If you do insert one after starting TRACKEM, then you can
re-scan and it will then appear in the list of drives.

PARNET:
--------
A word about parnet, unless you have parnet set up perfectly, not every partition
on the client side of the net, (The other side) is logged as available to NET:. If
you wish to be able to track ALL partitions on this machine you will have to do a
manual CD to each partition so that parnet then knows they exist, or use the source
file requestor and do it that way. then trackem will be able to check every
partition. Or if you just want to check one partition then just use the "use path
requestor" and set the source to that path.


USING IT:
----------
To start TRACKING, simply click on the required drives in the drive list, an > will
appear next to each drive that has been selected to be tracked. Or you can use the
3 gadgets situated directly under the drive list - A N T
A = ALL Drives.
N = NO Drives.
T = TOGGLE Drives.

Below these gadgets in a checkbox gadget, this allows you to use a path selecter to
choose the search path directly. When selected, only this path will be checked, to
turn this off, un-check this option.

NOTE: When TRACKING, it only tracks all sub-dirs from the selected dir and down, it
does not come up higher than the directory from where it was started. This only
applies to when you are using the "Use Path Requestor".

When you select a drive, the START gadget will become active, it will only be
active while drives are selected or the Use REQ checkbox is checked.


WILDCARDS:
-----------
Once you have the drives selected, you must enter the file pattern that you want to
TRACK. This is entered in the top right corner of the window with the default being
*.info. Click inside this gadget to enter you own file pattern.

If you want a dead on match, then leave off any wildcard (*)'s.

Valid wild cards are as follows...

.info   - Only gets a perfect match.
*.info  - Only matches at the end of a file name.
.info*  - Only matches at the beginning of a file name.
*.info* - Matches anywhere in the file name, Front, Back & anywhere in it.

You can enter anything you want, you can even enter a single letter like *a* and
every file that contains an 'a' will be tracked. On my system there are over 60,000
files and just on 43,000 of them have the letter 'a' in them!

Click on the START gadget and it will start TRACKING through each of the drives
selected, this progress is displayed in the box under where you entered the file
pattern.

You can click on CANCEL at any time to abort the TRACKING Process.

While this process is going on, various pieces of information will be updated in
the main window.

These include...

The total number of Files that have been examined.
The total number of Directories that have been examined.
The total number of Bytes examined.

The total number of Files that matched.
The total number of Bytes of the Files that matched.

Once the process is complete or canceled, a requestor will appear giving you a
report based on what it has TRACKED. This report contains information like...

The total number of files & bytes that were checked in how many directories it
searched.
The total number of files matched and the total bytes of these files.
The total time it took to do the TRACK.
An approximate number of files per second  it was tracking at.

All the files that were tracked will show up in the TRACKED FILES list. As a
default they will all be selected with a '>'. You can move through this list with
the slider or arrows at the right of this list. You can also unselect files by
simply clicking on them, they can be re-selected by again clicking on the file
name.

After a TRACK is completed, the row of gadgets under the file list will become
active, these include...

SORT   - Sort the file list by File Name or File size.
ALL    - Selects all files.
NONE   - No files are selected.
TOGGLE - This will toggle the file selections.
DEST   - A DESTINATION Requester will appear allowing you to select your final
         destination for the files.

Just to the right of DEST is a checkbox gadget marked 'INTERROGATE'. When this is
checked, you can click on any file in the list and a requestor will appear with
information about this file including...

FILE NAME.
FILE SIZE.
PROTECTION BITS.
FULL PATH.

While this mode is enabled, you can do nothing else apart from read the ABOUT msg
or quit, to leave this mode simply un-check this gadget.

If you already have selected a destination, it's path and amount of free space will
be shown in the two extra boxes in the middle of the window. If there is enough
free space for all the files then the COPY ALL gadget will become active, if not,
then the COPY TO FIT gadget will.

As you select and de-select files, a counter at the bottom right will keep track of
your progress. It shows the total number of files you have selected and the total
number of bytes those files take up. It also recalculates the space needed and
adjusts the COPY gadgets accordingly.

Click on either COPY ALL or COPY TO FIT to start the process. A requester will ask
you to confirm that you want to copy the selected files.

Once copying has commenced, a progress meter will appear showing the % complete.

During this process a requestor may appear saying that a file already exists. It
will tell you the name of the file and also the file sizes of the new and old
files. You will be prompted to do one of 3 things.

RENAME!    - Selecting this will append a . and a number depending on how many
             copies already exist.
SKIP IT!   - This will skip the curent file.
OVERWRITE! - The existing file will be overwritten by the new file.

If you selected COPY ALL then the copy process will continue until it is completed.

IF you selected COPY TO FIT then, depending on how much space is needed and what is
available, it will ask you to select a new destination until all files have been
copied.

At the moment the SORT function is disabled until I can get a better routine that
does not run out of stack space.

A big thanks to Gary O'Conner for the new useful commands he wrote for Blitz.

Well if you find this program useful then do send me a postcard.

send any postcards, bug reports or suggestions for improvement to ....

Neil Miller.
P.O. Box 791
Hornsby, NSW, AUSTRALIA, 2077

Or drop me a line of internet at neil@triode.apana.org.au or find me on Midnight
Caller under the handle of TEX.

I would love someone to do a nice Magic WB type icon for the program, if you do
then send it to me and I will release it with the next version.

